# London expands CCTV network in ‘tech race against crime’

Joshua Gabert-Doyon

Published
MAR 18 2025

258
Print this page
Unlock the Editor’s Digest for free

Roula Khalaf, Editor of the FT, selects her favourite stories in this weekly newsletter.

From a cramped control room in west London, a CCTV operator watches a man wielding a knife walk down a busy high street. The operator gives radio instructions to police as they rush towards the scene. Seconds later, the knifeman is pepper sprayed and tackled to the ground.

London is often cited as one of the most heavily surveilled cities in the world. But local government officials say that security threats such as this justify the expansion of state surveillance, as authorities prepare to launch a new wave of AI-powered monitoring.

Boroughs in the capital ratcheted up spending on CCTV to £30.4mn in the fiscal year ending April 2024 — an annual increase of nearly 25 per cent — according to London Councils, a lobby group.

Hammersmith and Fulham council has the densest CCTV network in the country with 2,500 cameras in operation. From next month, artificial intelligence will be used by control room operators to quickly identify and track criminal suspects.

 “There’s a tech race against crime,” said council leader Stephen Cowan, “just like there is a tech race between countries militarily. And for us to tool-up on the tech race means making sure we have the best, most sophisticated AI equipment.” 

The boost to surveillance spending comes as Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer attempts to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour. The UK has seen a sizeable increase in shoplifting and street crime since the cost of living crisis.

Local councils run most of the capital’s CCTV cameras. Extra funding for surveillance has been earmarked for the rollout of AI-enabled “smart” cameras, which authorities claim have a level of precision that can detect aggressive conversations, loitering and fly-tipping.

But critics say that advanced CCTV poses a threat to personal privacy and could lead to law enforcement overreaches if not properly regulated.

Video surveillance has been widespread in London since the 1990s, however, councils are keen to use the latest tools enabled by the rollout of full-fibre connectivity and advances in artificial intelligence. 

While the use of AI varies, smart cameras typically rely on algorithms to detect people, objects, sound frequencies or behavioural patterns.

North, a surveillance camera operator contracted by Hammersmith and Fulham council, said it has more than a hundred local authority customers and had seen a steep rise in camera deployment over the past year. The company offers services such as AI audio detection and thermal imaging.

“ Cameras and devices are being used in a whole matter of different ways to improve the lives of individuals, detect crime, reduce crime and serve as a deterrence so that people can live more freely,” said Andrew Foster, managing director for public services at North. 

North is also contracted by Westminster council, which is doubling its CCTV network to 200 cameras, including AI-enabled cameras in Leicester Square that can detect shouting and sudden loud noises.

Foster added that cost was an issue for some local authorities. “As cameras become more sophisticated they’re becoming more expensive, naturally.”

While some authorities have been hesitant to initiate facial recognition capabilities in their CCTV networks, high street retailers have taken up the technology enthusiastically as a means to reduce shoplifting. 

Facewatch, a company that provides facial recognition services to Sports Direct, Morrisons and Budgens, said they install an average of 170-200 new cameras a month — roughly twice as many cameras as last year.

Starmer indicated that the government would be pushing for increased facial recognition surveillance following the anti-immigration riots in several cities in August 2024.

The crime and policing bill, which is currently passing through parliament, includes measures that would prevent protesters from wearing face coverings.

Network Rail and Transport for London have also made use of AI-enabled surveillance. TfL has said it is considering the expansion of video technology used to monitor track areas at Custom House DLR station to safety incidents. A separate AI trial at Willesden Green station had been aimed, in part, at identifying fare dodging. 

Officials say that in the long run artificial intelligence systems will help reduce the cost of crime reduction.

“It’s very expensive to employ a lot of super-recognisers to be looking at screens,” said Cowan, referring to people who have an abnormal ability to recall faces. The Hammersmith and Fulham council leader said AI would help the authority add more cameras without the need to hire additional control room operators.

For the time being, however, the use of AI-enabled CCTV for law enforcement remains limited. 

Haringey council said it had deployed AI-enabled cameras pointed at residential windows after reports of glass bottles, gym equipment and furniture being thrown from the high-rise council flats. 

Recommended

Business InsightAnjli Raval
AI won’t fix the real issue with customer service

The council’s AI CCTV cameras were manufactured by Hikvision, a Chinese surveillance camera manufacturer that is banned in the US and from “sensitive central government sites” in the UK.

Civil rights experts say that the use of surveillance technology often succumbs to “function creep”, where a tool ends up being used for more than its initial intended use case.

The Metropolitan Police said the use of technology was key to its efforts to improve service in London, including further examination into “the ways in which the development of AI may be able to assist in investigations, balancing operational effectiveness with ethical responsibility”.

Pete Fussey, a professor of criminology at the University of Southampton, said he was concerned about the lack of regulation around new surveillance technologies.

“From both a human rights and public safety perspective, a properly evidenced standard of effectiveness should be established before speculative technologies become tested in public,” Fussey said.

“In a time of constrained public spending, questions arise over whether public safety is best served through investment in untested technology,” he added.